Some people are incapable of perceiving in the object of their contemplation the very
thing that gives it its intrinsic life and breath,

t’s all well and good to have profound thoughts on a regular basis, but I think it’s not enough. Well, I mean: I’m going to commit suicide
and set the house on fire in a few months; obviously I can’t assume I have time at my disposal, therefore I have to do something
substantial with the little I do have.

At this very moment, as I am writing, Constitution the cat is going by with her tummy
dragging close to the floor. This cat has absolutely nothing constructive to do in life and still she is heading toward something, probably an
armchair. And you can tell from the way she’s moving: she is headed toward.

For the first time, someone was talking to me, saying my name. Here was a woman with clear eyes and a smiling mouth
standing before me, and she was finding her way to my heart, saying my name, entering with me into a
closeness I had not previously known existed. I looked around me and saw a world that was suddenly
filled with colors.

I have read so many books . . .
And yet, like most autodidacts, I am never quite sure of what I have gained from them.

othing is harder or more unfair than human reality: humans live in a world
where it’s words and not deeds that have power, where the ultimate skill is mastery of language. This is a terrible thing because basically
we are primates who’ve been programmed to eat, sleep, reproduce, conquer and make our territory safe, and the ones who are most
gifted at that, the most animal types among us, always get screwed by the others, the fine talkers, despite these latter being incapable of
defending their own garden or bringing a rabbit home for dinner or procreating properly. Humans live in a world where the weak are
dominant. This is a terrible insult to our animal nature, a sort of perversion or a deep contradiction.

According to Husserl’s theory, all that exists is the perception of the cat. And the cat itself? Well,
we can just do without it. Bye-bye kitty. Who needs a cat?

I am very fond of Neptune. Yes, we appreciate each other a great deal, no doubt because of that
state of grace that is attained when one’s feelings are immediately accessible to another creature’s.
Neptune can sense that I love him; his multiple desires are perfectly clear to me. What charms me
about the whole business is that he stubbornly insists on remaining a dog, whereas his mistress would
like to make a gentleman of him

Moments like this act as magical interludes, placing our hearts at the edge of our souls:
fleetingly, yet intensely, a fragment of eternity has come to enrich time. Elsewhere the world may be
blustering or sleeping, wars are fought, people live and die, some nations disintegrate, while others
are born, soon to be swallowed up in turn—and in all this sound and fury, amidst eruptions and
undertows, while the world goes its merry way, bursts into flames, tears itself apart and is reborn:
human life continues to throb.
So, let us drink a cup of tea.

Kakuzo Okakura, the author of the Book of Tea, laments the rebellion of the Mongolian tribes in the
thirteenth century not because it brought death and desolation but because it destroyed one of the
creations of the Song dynasty, the most precious among them, the art of tea. Like Okakura, I know that
tea is no minor beverage. When tea becomes ritual, it takes its place at the heart of our ability to see
greatness in small things. Where is beauty to be found? In great things that, like everything else, are
doomed to die, or in small things that aspire to nothing, yet know how to set a jewel of infinity in a
single moment?

At times like this you desperately need Art

Madame Michel has the elegance of the hedgehog: on the outside, she’s covered in quills, a real
fortress, but my gut feeling is that on the inside, she has the same simple refinement as the hedgehog: a deceptively indolent little
creature, fiercely solitary—and terribly elegant.





